'CMYKMVZ-VZE\n                                                                                                                             VISAKHAPATNAMTHE HINDU FRIDAY,JULY9,2021\n6                                                                                                                             EDITORIALJumbo cabinet\nWednesday™s massive\nexpansion of the \nUnion\ncabinet will be\nremembered more for\nthose who were given the\nmarching orders, some of\nthem being the most visible\nand vocal faces of the Modi\ngovernment\n. While quite a\nfew of those shown the\ndoorwere undoubtedly\nnon-performers,\nperformance alone does\nnot seem to have been the\ncriterion that in†uenced\nthe Prime Minister™s mind.\nNon-performing \nMinisters\ncontinue in the cabinet, the\nmost noticeable being the\nFinance Minister. Also, can\nthe Prime Minister take\ncredit for success in\nmanaging the pandemic\nwhile sacking the Ministers\nconcerned for their\nincompetence? The Prime\nMinister alone has to\nanswer this apparent\ncontradiction. He has also\ndeviated from his\noft-repeated doctrine\n:minimum\ngovernment-maximum\ngovernance, given the\nmega-sized cabinet.\nS.K. Choudhury,\nBengalurunThe Prime Minister \nhastargeted non-performance\nwith the removal of key\nsenior Ministers who\nprobably basked in the glory\nof invincibility. India now has\namore inclusive Council of\nMinisters\n. Hopefully the\ninexperience of the new\nMinisters will give direction\nto new ideas to realise Mr.\nNarendra Modi™s vision.\nKanak Rajan Nambiar,\nVaram, Kannur, Kerala\nnAcabinet expansion in the\nmiddle of the Government™s\nsecond termhas surprised\nmany\n. That high-pro“le\nMinisters who have played a\nkey role since the beginning\nof the NDA™s rule, have now\nlost their jobs is intriguing.\nThe Government has also\ntried to send the right signals\nin its representation to the\neducated, the young, women\nand the socially\ndisadvantaged\n. But in the\nteam where Prime Minister\nNarendra Modi is the sole\nleader, the fact is there will\nhardly be any di‘erence in\nfunctioning with the new\nformations.\nDr. D.V.G.Sankararao,\nNellimarla, Andhra Pradesh\nnIn what can be termed a\nbold initiative and well-timed\nmove, the reshu’e will\naugur well for the nation. It\ncould have twin bene“ts: the\nsenior guard would really\nhave to be on its toes,\nandthis is an opportunity for\nfreshers to work on a\nplatform that has been set\n.Balasubramaniam Pavani,\nSecunderabad\nDilip Kumar\nIt is a matter of honour and\npride for both Dilip Kumar\nand India that he is the only\nIndian actor to receive the\nﬁNishan-e-Imtiazﬂ, one of\nPakistan™s highest awards. As\nreported by the thespian\nlater, during the Kargil war,\nhe was under pressure to\nreturn it. His meeting with\nthen Prime Minister Atal\nBihari Vajpayee to seek his\nadvice was the turning point\nMr. Vajpayee declared:\nﬁThere is no doubt about\nDilip™s patriotism and\ncommitment to nation... \nHe\nhas received the Award at an\nindividual level. It™s his will\nto keep it or return it. No one\ncan pressurise him.ﬂ This\nit was an occasion when\neven his opponent could not\nbelieve his eyes.For millions\nof his fans the world over,\nthe immediate reaction was\nwhether this would spell his\nretirement. Many of us wish\nthat he bounces back and\nreturns to his favourite \nturfto make memories turn\ngreen for him and his fans. \nA.P. Thiruvadi,\nChennainFederer™s shocking \ndefeat\nis an aberration in his\nillustrious career. Many of us\nsecond what a fan pleaded\nduring the match: \nﬁOne\nmore year, please!ﬂ \nWill\nthere be another appearance\nand one more title win for\nFederer at Wimbledon? Only\nhe can answer this. \nR. Sivakumar,\nChennaisingle incident shows the\ngreatness of Mr. Vajpayee as\naleader and a human being.\nOne shudders to imagine the\nsituation had it occurred\nnow.\nBeant Singh Bedi,\nMohali, Punjab\nWimbledon exit\nBeing an ardent fan of Roger\nFederer, it waspainful to see\nthe legend bow out of this\nyear™s Wimbledon, and in\nthe quarter “nals. What\nmade it worse was his defeat\nin straight sets. We hope this\ndoes not a‘ect him and\nmake him hang up his\nracket\n. It could be a clear\npath now for Novak Djokovic\nto march on and soar in the\nOlympics and U.S. Open. \nN. Mahadevan,\nChennainThe ﬁKing of grassﬂ was\nbeaten convincingly, though\nLETTERS TO THE EDITOR \nLetters emailed to letters@thehindu.co.in must carry the full postal address and the full name or the name with initials.\nTo read more letters\nonline, scan the QR code\nChitrangada Choudhury\nWhen an ošcer from the\nNational Investigation\nAgency (NIA) came to in-\nterrogate Father Stan Swamy last\nmonsoon, the \nJesuit sociologist,\nthen 83, in turn asked him about\npolice integrity, and why a father-\nson duo (P. Jayaraj and\nBennicks)\nshould die of custodial torture in a\nTamil Nadu \npolice lock-up. It was\nquintessential Fr. Swamy: un-\nafraid, outspoken, and question-\ning injustice.\nFr. Swamy was sent to Taloja Jail\nin October 2020 in the Bhima Ko-\nregaon case, where some of his co-\naccused have now spent more\nthan three years without bail or\ntrial. All have been charged under\nthe Unlawful Activities (Preven-\ntion) Act (UAPA), a widely misused\ntool for governments to criminal-\nise lawful dissent and hold ideo-\nlogical opponents in prolonged in-\ncarceration. For all the talk by\nauthorities of a terrorist conspira-\ncy, Fr. Swamy was never interro-\ngated in nine months of custody.\nHis arrest in the middle of the pan-\ndemic, over two years after the\n“rst raid on his spartan one-room\nresidence, seems like targeted\nviciousness.\nAll Indians have dignity, not just\nthe wealthy and the privileged.\nThis belief guided Fr. Swamy\n™s life-\nlong concern for justice, as I saw in\nmy interactions with him over the\nyears as a journalist. \nAdivasis and loss\nWhen he “rst came to West\nSinghbhum from his native Tiru-\nchirappalli in Tamil Nadu in the\n1970s, living among the Adivasi\ncommunities profoundly shaped\nhim. He had told me in an inter-\nview, ﬁI underwent an awakening,\nlooking at Adivasi values of equali-\nty, community, and decision-mak-\ning by consensus.ﬂ His work “rmly\nrejected the prejudice of Adivasi\n‚backwardness™, and tirelessly\npointed out how violence and dis-\npossession was pushed down their\nthroats and called development:\nﬁAdivasis lived on lands full of min-\nerals. Others took these out and\nenriched themselves, but Adivasis\ndid not get anything.ﬂ\nIn a decade-long tenure as Di-\nrector of Bengaluru™s Indian Social\nInstitute, he trained countless\ngrass-roots activists. He continued\nthis work when he co-founded the\nRanchi-based Bagaicha in 2006 Š\nacentre for research, training and\nsocial action dedicated to working\nwith Adivasi and other marginal-\nised communities and legally em-\npowering their struggles for jus-\ntice and dignity. As long-time\nfriends and colleagues testify, Fr.\nSwamy wanted it to be a place\nwhich the marginalised felt was\ntheir own. A statue of Birsa Munda\nand a megalith with the names of\nthose killed in anti-displacement\nprotests marked Bagaicha™s cen-\ntral ground. Its one room library\ncontained reports, studies and\n“les of newspaper cuttings on is-\nsues such as \nforced displacement,\nhunger deaths, extra-judicial kill-\nings and grassroots protests Š a\nburied history of India™s\ndemocracy.\nHelping hand for undertrials\nWhen I “rst met Fr. Swamy\nin\n2013, his team was immersed in ef-\nforts for poor undertrials in pri-\nsons across Jharkhand against a\nraging armed con†ict. \nAfter three\nyears of painstaking research\nbased on prison visits, meeting\npolice ošcials and villagers, and\nRight to Information Act requests,\nhis team released a report that in-\ncluded the case studies of over 100\nUAPA undertrials. Overwhelming-\nly, they were Adivasis and Dalits,\nand in some cases they had lan-\nguished in the criminal justice sys-\ntem for up to 10 years. About 59%\nof the households of undertrials,\nthe report found, earned under\n3,000 per month and were\nforced to sell assets such as goats\nto meet bail conditions or legal ex-\npenses. Fr. Swamy also “led a pu-\nblic interest litigation on the basis\nof his team™s “ndings, which is still\nbeing heard in the Jharkhand High\nCourt. As he publicly stated before\nhis arrest, he believed that such ef-\nforts to challenge an unjust status\nquo led the state to target him.\nFr. Swamy™s demise has led to a\npublic outpouring of sadness and\nanger at the cruelty of our crimi-\nnal justice system. Ever self-e‘ac-\ning, he would have wanted this at-\ntention not on him but on the\nresource grabs that continue to in-\n†ict \nstaggering violence against\nAdivasis and other marginalis\ned\ngroups, “ll our prisons with peo-\nple with little access to justice, and\nnecessitate draconian laws such as\nthe UAPA. To blame ‚the system™\nor ‚the government™ for his death\nis to overlook how we are implicat-\ned in this political economy found-\ned on dispossession, and the ever-\nexpanding criminalisation of de-\nmands for social and\nenvironmental justice as conspira-\ncies against the state. \nLiberalisation, the oppressed\nThe human rights activist, K. Bala-\ngopal, had argued that an abiding\nlegacy of liberalisation is the deleg-\nitimis\nation of concern for the op-\npressed. This is why a man who\nstrove all his life for solidarity, fra-\nternity and justice in real terms\nstands accused by our government\nof promoting enmity. And why his\ndeath, while foretold, transcends\ntextual analyses of the UAPA, cour-\ntroom proceedings and prison\nreforms.\nFr. Swamy\nhad one chance to\nappear in court, when a Bombay\nHigh Court B\nench asked for him to\nbe presented via video-conferenc-\ning from Taloja jail on the after-\nnoon of \nMay 21. Battling multiple\nailments including Parkinson™s dis-\nease, diminished hearing, and by\nthen COVID-19contracted in pri-\nson, he \nwas visibly ailing, but as al-\nways full of self-respect. \nHe told the court that prison\nconditions were steadily destroy-\ning his abilities to read, write\nand\nwalk, and that he be granted bail\nto return to Ranchi to be with his\nown. In rejecting the judges™ sug-\ngestion that they send him to hos-\npital for a few days, Fr. Swamy\nas-serted his dignity and innocence,\nand registered a moral protest\nagainst being e‘ectively made to\nserve a death sentence, as an inde-\n“nitely imprisoned undertrial.\nAs now well known, a dying\nman™s “nal wish to return to Jhark-\nhand, to the people he loved and\nwith whose struggles he had be-\ncome one for over “ve\ndecades,\nwent unheard. These struggles\nwill keep Father Stan Swamy™s\nquest for a more democratic India\nalive.\nChitrangada Choudhury is a journalist\nand on the editorial board of Article 14\nIn a passing, the larger picture of dispossession\nBlaming ‚the system™ alone for Father Stan Swamy™s death obscures how India™s political economy is linked to dep\nrival\nFILE PHOTO/MANOB CHOWDHURY\nLast week, on Friday, the Unit-\ned Stateshanded over the\nBagram airbase to the Af-\nghan authorities, marking a sym-\nbolic end to its military presence,\nas U.S. forces complete their with-\ndrawal well ahead of the \nSeptem-\nber 11 deadline, announced by\nAmerican President Joe Biden on\nApril 14. A familiar air of uncer-\ntainty surrounds Kabul as the Af-\nghans ponder over the future of\ntheir land, ravaged by con†ict for\nnearly 50\nyears. Afghanistan™s im-\nmediate neighbours are now faced\nwith a new challenge Š how to per-\nsuade the Taliban against over-\nplaying their military hand?\nAcostly misadventure\nCould anyone have predicted\nwhen the U.S. commenced its mil-\nitary intervention in Afghanistan\nin October 2001 that it would get\nembroiled in an endless war for 20\nyears and to exit safely, it would\nhave to negotiate with the Taliban,\nthe same entity that it went in to\npunish? \nIt has been a costly lesson. The\nwar e‘ort has cost $980 billion,\nover 2,400 U.S. soldiers (plus 1,144\nallied troops) and 388 private mili-\ntary contractors have lost their\nlives. It also spent $143 billion on\nreconstruction; about $90 billion\nwent for the Afghan army, police\nand other security forces, $36 bil-\nlion for governance and economic\ndevelopment activities (the rest of\nthe international community con-\ntributed an equivalent amount)\nand the balance on counter-nar-\ncotics and humanitarian relief\nworks (https://bit.ly/3ADTcP7).\nYet, the real price has been paid\nby the Afghans. The 20-year war\nhas claimed the lives of nearly\n50,000 Afghan civilians and near-\nly 70,000 Afghan security forces (a\nmajority during the last seven\nyears); add to it another 60,000\nAfghan Taliban, and the scale of\nthe Afghan human loss becomes\nevident. \nThere have been gains too. In\n2001, there were 9,00,000 boys in\nschool. Today, eight million chil-\ndren attend school and a \nthird are\ngirls. Literacy is up from 12% in\n2002 to 35%; life expectancy from\n40 to 63 years. Urbanisation is\n26% and 70% of the population\nwatch TV. From 320 miles of\npaved roads in 2002, today, tarred\nroads cover 10,000 miles. Infant\nmortality rates are down from\n20% by over half. With a median\nage of 18.5 years, a majority of Af-\nghans have grown up in a post-Ta-\nliban era. Today, they bear the\nbrunt of 130 daily Taliban/IS Kho-\nrasan (IS-K)attacks, the highest\nsince the U.S. ended combat oper-\nations in end-2014. Tomorrow,\neven these limited gains are at risk.\nTaliban gains legitimacy\nFor U.S. President Bush, the objec-\ntive was ﬁto build a stable, strong,\ne‘ectively governed Afghanistan\nthat won™t degenerate into chaosﬂ.\nAs the U.S. shifted from counter-\nterrorism to counter-insurgency,\nshades of Vietnam began to\nemerge. To Hamid Karzai™s credit,\nhe saw the writing on the wall\nwhen he protested about the\nnight-raids and warned the Ameri-\ncans ﬁto either take the “ght to the\nsafe havens and sanctuaries across\nthe Durand Line or make peace\nwith the Talibanﬂ but it only\nsoured his relations with the U.S. \nEventually, U.S. President Ba-\nrack Obama diluted the objective\nto ﬁpreventing Afghanistan from\nbecoming a safe haven for global\nterrorismﬂ. He oversaw a success-\nful operation to eliminate Osama\nbin Laden in 2011, implemented\nan unsuccessful military surge\nconcluding with an end to combat\noperations in end-2014 and Tali-\nban opened the Doha ošce in\n2013. \nU.S. President Donald Trump\nsaw himself as a deal-maker and in\n2018, initiated direct negotiations\nwith the Taliban. Ambassador Zal-\nmay Khalilzad (U.S. Special Repre-\nsentative for Afghanistan Reconci-\nliation) began by setting out four\nelements Š a cease“re, cutting ties\nwith al Qaeda and other terrorist\ngroups, intra-Afghan peace talks,\nand, a withdrawal of all foreign\nmilitary forces, declaring that\nﬁnothing is agreed till everything\nis agreedﬂ. Within months, the Ta-\nliban had whittled down the U.S.\ndemands till it got what it wanted\nŠa withdrawal timeline not linked\nto the other factors. In addition,\nthe Taliban managed to get the\nU.S. to push the Kabul government\nto releaseover 5,000 Taliban\ncadres in custody. In short, the\nU.S. ended up legitimising the Tali-\nban at the expense of the govern-\nment in Kabul that they had\nworked to create and support.\nU.S. President Joe Biden was no\nstranger to the Afghan dossier. He\nwas convinced that the U.S. had to\nexit from its quagmire of ﬁforever\nwarsﬂ. The U.S. may have decided\nthat it had no military options but\nthe Taliban are still pushing ahead\nmilitarily. \nFrom less than a “fth, today, ov-\ner a third of Afghanistan™s over\n400 \ndistricts are under Taliban\ncontrol. The day after the exit\nfrom Bagram, 13 districts, in Ba-\ndakhshan, Takhar, Paktia and Kan-\ndahar fell to the Taliban, adding to\nthe 50\nthat have fallen since May.\nIn many cases, the locals manning\nthe security posts and checkpoints\nhave just surrendered. From vil-\nlages and towns, there is already a\nmove towards the cities. Intra-Af-\nghan talks in Doha have been in\nlimbo for months.\nQuestions about the future\nGen. Austin S. Miller, the U.S. com-\nmander in Afghanistan, indicated\nin a recent press conference,\nﬁCivil\nwar is certainly a path that can be\nvisualised if it continues on this\ntrajectory.ﬂ\nDr. Abdullah Abdullah,\nChairman of the High Council for\nNational Reconciliation, warned\non June 30, ﬁThe truth is, today\nthe survival, security and unity of\nAfghanistan is in danger....ﬂ\nIronically, the most vocal critics\nof the U.S. overstaying in Afghanis-\ntan and hinting that the U.S. would\nnever leave are the ones now\nblaming the U.S. for a hasty and ir-\nresponsible withdrawal.\nIn coming months, as uncer-\ntainties mount, there will be in-\ncreasing Taliban presence in the\ncountryside as the Kabul govern-\nment concentrates on ensuring se-\ncurity in urban areas and of the\nroad networks. The Taliban mili-\ntary strategy has been to target dis-\ntricts that enable them to sur-\nround provincial capitals. The\nclutch in the northeast including\nBadakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz and\nBaghlan enable them to control\nthe AfghanistanŒTajikistan\nborder\nand the Wakhan corridor that\nlinks to China. In the east, they ex-\nert control in Ghazni, Zabul and\nPaktia while the Haqqani network\nis active in Khost and Paktika, and\nthe IS-K in Nangarhar, Kunar and\nLaghman. Further south, the Tali-\nban control large parts of Kanda-\nhar, Helmand and Farah (border-\ning Iran). \nAs the reality of the U.S. with-\ndrawal takes hold, how events un-\nfold by end-2021 depends on three\nfactors. First, have the Taliban\nchanged their ideological colours?\nThe U.S. in recent years, and Pa-\nkistan for much longer, have been\npushing this line but the Taliban\nleadership have given no clues\nabout it. Related to this is the ques-\ntion of Taliban unity. Distances\nhave grown between the Quetta\nshura, the Doha negotiators and\nthe “ghters who want to guard\ntheir individual preserves. This\nworks as long as everyone is pur-\nsuing the military option, but\nwhen it comes to power sharing,\nwho calls the shots? Or, does it\nlead to no power sharing? \nSecond, can the Kabul regime\npresent a uni“ed front? If the lead-\ners in Kabul and the government\ncontinue sniping at each other, it\nwill adversely impact the integrity\nof the chain of command of the Af-\nghan security forces. If opportu-\nnistic leaders are tempted to strike\ntheir own deals with the Taliban, it\nwill only hasten the collapse, and\neven western funding will dry up. \nThe Pakistan factor\nFinally, is Pakistan still seeking\nstrategic depth in Afghanistan or\nhas it realised that a Taliban-dom-\ninated Kabul will be a magnet for\nits own home-grown extremists as\nwell as those from the neighbour-\nhood? Can it \npersuade the Taliban\nthat its legitimacy will be at risk\nunless it shares power? Pakistan™s\nin†uence will weaken once the\nRehbari Shura decides to move\nback from Quetta to Afghanistan. \nHistory tells us that in Afghanis-\ntan, there have only been winners\nand losers, seldom any lasting\ncompromises. \nRakesh Sood is a former diplomat and\npresently, Distinguished Fellow at the\nObserver Research Foundation\nTroubling prospects in Afghanistan\nAs the reality of the U.S. withdrawal takes hold, the future will depend on Taliban-Kabul dynamics and Pakistan™s role \nRakesh Sood\nREUTERSEntering its “fth year, India™s Goods and Services\nTax (GST) system reported a blip in revenue col-\nlections for June, breaking an eight-month streak\nof over 1-lakh crore in tax receipts. GST revenues\ntanked to a tad less than93,000 crore last month Š the\nlowest in 10months Š after a record1.41-lakh crore in\nApril and \na relatively tepid1.02-lakh crore in May. Gen-\nerally, the June revenue re†ects transactions that oc-\ncurred in May. With the second wave of the pandemic\nin full †ourish and States enforcing rigorous restrictions\non most activities in May, the numbers are not really\nsurprising. However, as May GST compliance dates for\nsmaller taxpayers were extended till early July, some of\nthis revenue also re†ects April™s sales\n. Thus, the actual\nGST income attributable to May™s economic activity\nwould be lower than June™s gross GST kitty. This is also\nre†ected in the generation of e-way bills, which fell by a\nsharp 30% in May compared to April, while the sequen-\ntial decline in revenues was not as steep. With caseloads\ndeclining over June and restrictions being pulled ba\nck\ngradually, revenues should pick up next month with 5.5\ncrore e-way bills generated in June from 3.99 crore in\nMay. Despite the slowdown in May-June, GST collec-\ntions in the Q1 of \n2021-22 \nhave been healthier than pre-\npandemic levels, con“rming that this year™s restrictions\ndriven by States have in†icted less economic costs than\nthe national lockdown at a few hours™ notice, in 2020. \nWhile the second wave setbacks have shaken up bu-\nsiness and consumer sentiment, average monthly reve-\nnues of over\n1-lakh crore Š which Finance Minister Nir-\nmala Sitharaman has termed the ‚new normal™ for GST\nŠcould perhaps sustain through the year, if there is no\ndramatic resurgence of the pandemic and vaccinations\nare ramped up as promised. This should give some “s-\ncal breathing room for the Centre and States, but neith-\ner can a‘ord to sit back. Structural corrections in the\nGST regime and the inclusion of petroleum and elec-\ntricity may take longer, but there is enough that needs\nimmediate attention. Industry has sought temporary\nrate cuts on some sectors to spur demand. It is plausible\nthat a volume pick-up could make up for resultant reve-\nnue losses, just as an uptick in petrol consumption\ncreates room for a revenue-neutral duty cut on fuels.\nThe GST Council must be reconvened soon to take up\nsuch ideas to prod the economy™s rebound, apart from\nholding the promised special session to discuss all \nthe\nbrewing concerns related to States™ compensation. De-\nlaying this will not only foster greater misgivings\nbet-\nween the Centre and the Statesbut also make it tough\nfor States to plan their borrowings for the rest of the\nyear. Clarity is also needed urgently on when the\n1.58-lakh crore of back-to-back borrowings for States in lieu\nof compensation dues will begin. If the Centre plans to\nraise \n5,000 crore a week, like it did last year, it will\ntake roughly 32 weeks to complete such borrowings; so,\nany delay beyond early August may not be viable. \nA blip\nThis year™s restrictions by States have in†icted\nless economic costs than the 2020 lockdown\nThe reconstitution of the Union Council of Minis-\nters on Wednesday was guided by both political\nand administrative considerations. As many as 36\nnew faces were inducted and 12 dropped from the\ncouncil, which now has 78 members, just three shy of\nthe upper limit of 81. In 2014, the Bharatiya Janata Party\n(BJP) began its rule advertising its 45-member C\nouncil\nof M\ninisters as an attempt at minimum government, but\nthe restraint was quietly abandoned in the following\nyears. The political aspirations of communities and re-\ngions are dišcult to satiate in a country as vast and di-\nverse as India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made\nan attempt to make his Council more diverse and repre-\nsentative, in a manner that “ts his political prioriti\nes.\nThe new composition of the Council is in step with the\nBJP™s relentless e‘orts to rope in OBC groups, Dalits and\ntribes people under its Hindutva umbrella politics. This\naccommodation is crucial for the BJP to continue its do-\nminance in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other Hindi-speak-\ning regions, where caste tensions are simmering. New\ninductions and elevations also signal a continued e‘ort\nby the BJP to expand its in†uence to new areas such as\nWest Bengal and the northeastern States. Barring the\ncontinuing under-representation of Muslims, the coun-\ncil is impressively representative of Indian diversity. \nGovernance issues might have been a factor in the ax-\ning of some of the Ministers. Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shan-\nkar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar\nwere among those\nwho got the marching orders, apparently for mishan-\ndling the pandemic, relations with global IT giants and\ngovernmental communication, respectively. New in-\nductees such as Ashwini Vaishnaw and Jyotiraditya\nScindia have administrative skills that could prove \nva-\nluable in crucial ministries that they now head. Ind\nivi-\ndual talent and accountability both can only be contex-\ntual, and in a highly centralised system they become\nimmaterial. The M\ninisters must be empowered to plan\nand take decisions in their respective areas. The notion\nof collective responsibility of the cabinet must be i\nn-\nfused with meaning. Discussions in the cabinet must be\nopen. Proposals that come for the cabinet™s consider\na-\ntion must go through rigorous technical vetting and\nwide political consultations. The recomposition was in-\ntended to enhance governance, rev up the economy\nand fuel the BJP™s political march ahead of crucial State\nelections and the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. All thes\newould be possible only if all hands are on the deck. As-\nsembling a team is indeed a crucial task of a captain; al-\nlowing them to †ourish as individuals while playing as a\nteam is equally critical. \nNew phase \nCabinet shu“e aims to improve governance\nwhile keeping in mind political considerations\nThis PDF was originally uploaded To The  English Newspaper L-- Banna SA (https://t.me/English_Newspaper_L_Banna)one else Backup chennal @NEWS_Backup_L_Banna'
​
